." Copyright (c) 2001, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by the Free Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
." version 2 for more details (a copy is included in the LICENSE file that
." accompanied this code).
."
." You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License version
." 2 along with this work; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additional information or have any
." questions.
."
.TH policytool 1 "05 Jul 2012"

.LP
.SH "名前"
policytool \- PolicyTool管理GUIユーティリティ
.LP
\f3policytool\fPは、ユーティリティGUI経由で取得したユーザー入力に基づいて、プレーン・テキストのポリシー・ファイルを読み書きします。 
.RS 3
.TP 2
o
形式 
.TP 2
o
説明 
.TP 2
o
オプション  
.TP 2
o
関連項目 
.RE

.LP
.SH "形式"
.LP
.LP
policytool管理者ユーティリティを実行します
.LP
.LP
\f4policytool\fP
.LP
.LP
policytoolを実行し、指定されたポリシー・ファイルを読み込みます
.LP
.LP
\f4policytool\fP\f2[\-file\ \fP\f2filename\fP\f2]\fP
.LP
.LP
説明
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
file 
ローカル・ポリシー・ファイルを読み込むように\f2policytool\fPに指示します 
.TP 3
filename 
ファイル名 
.RE

.LP
.SH "説明"
.LP
.LP
\f3policytool\fPは、ユーザーがローカル・ポリシー・ファイルの内容を管理することを可能にするGUIです。詳細は、
.na
\f2ポリシー・ファイル作成および管理ツール\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/security/PolicyGuide.htmlを参照してください。
.LP
.SH "オプション"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
file 
\f2filename\fPを読み込みます。 
.RE

.LP
.SH "関連項目"
.LP
.na
\f2デフォルトのポリシー実装および構文\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/security/PolicyFiles.html
.br

.LP
.na
\f2ポリシー・ツール・ユーザーズ・ガイド\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/security/PolicyGuide.html
.br

.LP
.na
\f2セキュリティ権限\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/security/permissions.html
.br

.LP
.na
\f2セキュリティの概要\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/security/overview/jsoverview.html
.br

.LP
 
