." Copyright (c) 2005, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by the Free Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
." version 2 for more details (a copy is included in the LICENSE file that
." accompanied this code).
."
." You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License version
." 2 along with this work; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additional information or have any
." questions.
."
.TH schemagen 1 "05 Jul 2012"

.LP
.SH "名前"
schemagen \- XMLバインドのためのJava(tm)アーキテクチャ・スキーマ・ジェネレータ
.LP
.LP
\f3仕様バージョン:\fP 2.1
.br
\f3実装バージョン:\fP 2.1.3
.LP
.SH "schemagenの起動"
.LP
.LP
スキーマ・ジェネレータを起動するには、ユーザーのプラットフォームの\f2bin\fPディレクトリ内にある適切な\f2schemagen\fPシェル・スクリプトを使用します。
.LP
.LP
現在のスキーマ・ジェネレータは、Javaソース・ファイルとクラス・ファイルのいずれも処理できます。
.LP
.LP
また、スキーマ・ジェネレータを実行するためのAntタスクも用意されています。
.na
\f2schemagenをAntとともに使用する\fP @
.fi
https://jaxb.dev.java.net/nonav/2.1.3/docs/schemagenTask.htmlための手順を参照してください。
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
% schemagen.sh Foo.java Bar.java ...
.fl
Note: Writing schema1.xsd
.fl
\fP
.fi

.LP
.LP
ユーザーのJavaソース/クラスが他のクラスを参照している場合、システムのCLASSPATH環境変数でそれらのクラスにアクセスできるようになっているか、\f2\-classpath\fP/\f2\-cp\fPを使用してそれらのクラスをツールに指定する必要があります。そうしないと、スキーマの生成時にエラーが発生します。
.LP
.SS 
コマンドライン・オプション
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
Usage: schemagen [\-options ...] <java files> 
.fl

.fl
Options:
.fl
    \-d <path>             : specify where to place processor and javac generated class files
.fl
    \-cp <path>            : specify where to find user specified files
.fl
    \-classpath <path>     : specify where to find user specified files
.fl
    \-encoding <encoding>  : specify encoding to be used for apt/javac invocation
.fl

.fl
    \-episode <file>       : generate episode file for separate compilation
.fl
    \-version              : display version information
.fl
    \-help                 : display this usage message
.fl
\fP
.fi

.LP
.SH "生成されるリソース・ファイル"
.LP
.LP
現在のスキーマ・ジェネレータは単純に、Javaクラス内で参照されている名前空間ごとに1つのスキーマ・ファイルを作成します。生成されるスキーマ・ファイルの名前を制御する方法は、現時点では存在しません。そうした目的には、
.na
\f2スキーマ・ジェネレータのantタスク\fP @
.fi
https://jaxb.dev.java.net/nonav/2.1.3/docs/schemagenTask.htmlを使用してください。
.LP
.SH "名前"
関連項目
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 2
o
スキーマ・ジェネレータの実行(schemagen): [
.na
\f2コマンドラインの命令\fP @
.fi
https://jaxb.dev.java.net/nonav/2.1.3/docs/schemagen.html、
.na
\f2SchemaGenのAntタスクの使用\fP @
.fi
https://jaxb.dev.java.net/nonav/2.1.3/docs/schemagenTask.html] 
.TP 2
o
.na
\f2XMLバインドのためのJavaアーキテクチャ(JAXB)\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/xml/jaxb/index.html 
.RE

.LP
 
