." Copyright (c) 2001, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by the Free Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
." version 2 for more details (a copy is included in the LICENSE file that
." accompanied this code).
."
." You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License version
." 2 along with this work; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additional information or have any
." questions.
."
.TH policytool 1 "16 Mar 2012"

.LP
.SH "Name"
policytool \- PolicyTool Administration GUI Utility
.LP
\f3policytool\fP reads and writes a plain text policy file based on user input via the utility GUI.   
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.LP
Run the policytool Administrator's utility
.LP
.LP
\f4policytool\fP
.LP
.LP
Run policytool and load the specified policy file
.LP
.LP
\f4policytool\fP\f2[\-file\ \fP\f2filename\fP\f2]\fP
.LP
.LP
where:
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
file 
directs \f2policytool\fP to load a local policy file 
.TP 3
filename 
The file name 
.RE

.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
.LP
\f3policytool\fP is a GUI that allows users to create and manage policy files. For details, see 
.na
\f2the Policytool Users Guide\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/security/PolicyGuide.html. 
.LP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
file 
Loads \f2filename\fP. 
.RE

.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.na
\f2Default Policy Implementation and Syntax\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/security/PolicyFiles.html
.br

.LP
.na
\f2Policy Tool Users' Guide\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/security/PolicyGuide.html
.br

.LP
.na
\f2Security Permissions\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/security/permissions.html
.br

.LP
.na
\f2Security Overview\fP @
.fi
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/security/overview/jsoverview.html
.br

.LP
 
