." Copyright (c) 2012, 2013, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by the Free Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
." version 2 for more details (a copy is included in the LICENSE file that
." accompanied this code).
."
." You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License version
." 2 along with this work; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additional information or have any
." questions.
."
.TH jcmd 1 "18 Jul 2013"

.LP
.SH "Name"
jcmd \- Sends diagnostic command requests to a running Java Virtual Machine
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
\fP\f3jcmd\fP [ \f2options\fP ]
.fl
\f3jcmd\fP [ \f2pid\fP | \f2main\-class\fP ] \f3PerfCounter.print\fP
.fl
\f3jcmd\fP [ \f2pid\fP | \f2main\-class\fP ] \f2command [arguments]\fP
.fl
\f3jcmd\fP [ \f2pid\fP | \f2main\-class\fP ] \f3\-f\fP \f2file\fP
.fl
.fi

.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
options 
The command\-line options. See Options. 
.TP 3
pid 
Identifies the process that receives the diagnostic command requests. The process must be a Java process. To get a list of Java processes running on a machine, use jps(1) or jcmd(1). 
.TP 3
main\-class 
The main class of the process that receives the diagnostic command requests. When matching processes, any process whose main class name contains the specified string as a substring is matched. If several running Java processes share the same main class, then the diagnostic command request is sent to all these processes. To get a list of Java processes running on a machine, use jps(1) or jcmd(1). 
.TP 3
command [arguments] 
The main class of the process that receives the diagnostic command requests. When matching processes, any process whose main class name contains the specified string as a substring is matched. If several running Java processes share the same main class, then the diagnostic command request is sent to all these processes. To get a list of Java processes running on a machine, use jps(1) or jcmd(1). 
.TP 3
Perfcounter.print 
Print the performance counters available on the targeted Java processes. The list of performance counters might vary with the Java process. 
.TP 3
\-f file 
Read commands from \f2file\fP and call them on the targeted Java processes. In \f2file\fP, each command must be written on a single line. Lines starting with # are ignored. Processing of \f2file\fP ends when all lines have been called or when a line containing the \f3stop\fP keyword is read. 
.RE

.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
.LP
\f3jcmd\fP is a utility to send diagnostic command requests to a Java Virtual Machine supporting this feature.
.LP
.LP
Used without arguments or with the \f3\-l\fP option, \f3jcmd\fP prints the list of running Java processes with their process ID, their main class and their command\-line arguments.
.LP
.LP
When a process ID is specified on the command line, \f3jcmd\fP sends the diagnostic command request to the process with this ID.
.LP
.LP
When a main class is specified on the command line, \f3jcmd\fP sends the diagnostic command request to all Java processes for which the command\-line argument is a substring of the Java process' main class.
.LP
.LP
With the \f3PerfCounter.print\fP argument, \f3jcmd\fP prints the performance counters available on the targeted Java processes.
.LP
.LP
With the \f3\-f\fP option, \f3jcmd\fP sends to the targeted Java processes the diagnostic commands stored in the specified \f3file\fP.
.LP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.LP
Options are mutually exclusive. Options, when used, must immediately follow the command name.
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-l 
Prints the list of running Java processes with their process IDs, their main classes, and their command\-line arguments. 
.TP 3
\-h 
Prints a help message. 
.TP 3
\-help 
Prints a help message. 
.RE

.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 2
o
jps 
.RE

.LP
 
